---
title: I Hated Bamboozled
author: Kymon Harrington
layout: post
---

Spike Lee’s “Bamboozled” was released in 2000. This movie tells the story of Pierre Delacroix, who is a writer for the Continental Network Service (CNS). When the network demands that better material be written, Pierre recruits two homeless men he knows, Manray and Womack, to become “Mantan” and “Sleep'n Eat.” Although this is done reluctantly, both men agree to become exaggerated, stereotypical caricatures of black people. This upsets many members in the black community, as the show’s mere existence and content disregard the history of blackface and invalidates the experiences of blacks throughout history. It is clear that the more successful and wealthy Pierre, Manray, and Womack become, the more their morality and dignity disappear, creating major difficulties in their relationship with one another as well as others. After Womack quits, Manray proceeds with the show until Sloan, Pierre’s assistant, helps him to fully reflect on how he is impacting others. Not knowing Manray eventually quits, the Mau Maus (hip-hop band) kidnap him and broadcast his murder on live television; they are later killed (all but one white man) by police in a confrontational pursuit. Ultimately, Sloan fatally shoots Pierre out of grief for Manray; in total, all of the characters’ moral beliefs are compromised and abandoned in the pursuit of capital (social or monetary). While it was apparently Spike Lee’s intent to further open uncomfortable discussions about race, the mission was poorly executed. His understanding (or lack thereof) of how this movie would impact the black community long-term, causes central themes and ideas to appear ill-informed, poorly strategized, and overshadowed by chaos and satire. As a consequence, this became a cautionary tale about capitalism at the expense of the black community.
