---
title: FaceTime
author: Julia Coletti
layout: post
---

[FaceTime], apple, [conversation], [eye contact], [digital], [relationship], online, illusion, smartphones, [technology], laptop, [communication], false, [accurate], deception, become, dialogue, perspective, distorted, viewer, [user], [screen], camera

Despite its more dystopic applications, [technology] has made staying connected to people, no matter their location way more immediate and convenient. However, anyone who has ever talked on [FaceTime] can tell you that it is not the same as talking to someone in person. Sure, the initial sight of a tiny [digital] companion trapped in your [screen] may be exciting, but there you are too, albeit a tinier version in the top right corner. Whether self-obsessed or insecure, it’s almost impossible to not be hyper-aware of the cyber-mirror held up during your entire [conversation], tracking your own expressions, reactions, or maybe just how your [hair] is looking.

It’s almost impossible to know what or who to look at. Regardless how good you are at holding [eye contact] face to face, tiny [digital] you also reminds you that this simply isn’t possible when you are looking at a [screen]. That’s because when broken down, [FaceTime] is a strange triangulation of gazes going as follows (very scientifically):

- I look at [screen].
- [Camera] 1 looks at Person 1
- Person 1 talks to [Screen] 1.
- [Screen] 1 talks to [Screen] 2.
- [Screen] 2 talks to Person 2.
- Person 2 looks at [Screen] 2.
- [Camera] 2 looks at Person 2.
- [Camera] 2 talks to [screen] 2
- [Screen] 2 talks to [Screen] 1
- … and so it goes… (Then again, I’m no computer programmer)

You don’t need to break things down to know you’ll never look at the other person’s face directly. However, the mediation of technological gazes makes it impossible to feel truly present and connected. What is [real]ly being displayed is just two faces floating side by side as seen by two different [camera]s. Therefore, to give the appearance of  looking each other in the eye, you’d actually have to not look at the other person at all, but rather, the [camera] above your [screen].

However, a recent software, “[FaceTime] Attention Correction” attempts to fix this flaw in the facilitation of [digital] intimacy. The new program can [digital]ly correct your eyes to give the appearance of [eye contact], allowing you to finally look at the other person… Only the eyes that you are staring into are actually not your companion’s at all, but an artificial intelligence program.

Maybe this is just an impressive new innovation allowing us to feel closer than ever no matter the distance, but it does raise questions about the nature of connection and [digital] [relationship]s. How much do our interactions need to be altered for them to feel [real]? Are we straying away from genuine human intimacy in the face of the [screen] age? And in what direction are we headed?
