---
title: Baby Yoda
author: Julia Coletti
layout: post
---

[traits], [real], psychological, explanations, community, [technology], [accurate], true love, [desire], iconic, cute, [features], [deep], [emotional], [Baby Yoda], [Star Wars], baby, [puppet], [material], CGI, [Disney+], [Twitter], [obsession], [streaming], [meme], TV

The Mandalorian is an “American space Western web series” available on the newest competitor in the [streaming] service market, [Disney+]. The show is an extension of the recent revival of the [Star Wars] franchise, following a lone gunfighter and his adventures across the galaxy.

But you don’t have to pay [Disney+]’s $6.99/month or have seen the show to be familiar with its true star— a tiny-bodied, big-eared green alien, colloquially referred to as “[Baby Yoda].”

Described by a famed German director and series costar, Werner Herzog, as “devastatingly beautiful,” (so much so that Herzog allegedly wept at the sight of the creature), [Baby Yoda] is capturing hearts at a tremendous pace. 

Thousands of [[Baby] Yoda] [meme]s are taking over [Twitter] and other social media, being adopted by numerous subcultures of the [Twitter]-sphere, circulating as ways of ingroup relation or broad jokes, messages and inter[communication]. A force of unity, [[Baby] Yoda] has become everyone’s beloved child.

With sparkling eyes, disproportioned [features], and itty bitty stature, [[Baby] Yoda] possesses characteristics not unlike human babies (although green, not from planet earth, and apparently 50 years-old). While this may be part of why he draws immediate empathy and adoration, it does not entirely explain the internet’s unique [obsession].

Even [deep]er, our profound love for [[Baby] Yoda] may also stem from the fact that unlike most modern cinematic nonhuman characters, [[Baby] Yoda] was not computer-generated. Our bald-headed hero was actually an animatronic [puppet], and while not actually alive, physically interacted with his human counterparts. [[Baby] Yoda] is [real], tangible, and satiates our innate [desire] for genuity and physicality in a mediascape dominated by unbridled technological advancement.

Perhaps what we [real]ly long for is an escape from [digital] simulation; to turn away (even just for a moment) from promises of a computer-generated hyper[real]ity and back to the [material] world… or into [[Baby] Yoda]’s eyes.

https://[Twitter].com/babyyodababy/status/1202247292713160704?s=12
