---
title: Beyonce Pushing Boundaries
author: Kymon Harrington
layout: post
---

The public has watched Beyonce grow as an individual, an artist, and a public figure since the start of her career. Beyoncé is a very well-respected and widely known artist and entertainer from Houston, Texas. Her career began as one of four original members of Destiny’s Child, earning countless platinum records. After the group split to pursue solo careers in the mid-2000s, Beyoncé continued to maintain the public’s attention. Since starting a solo career, she has remained prominent in media and continued to influence other artists with her versatile musical style, seemingly flawless performances, and fashion. Beyoncé’s two most recent projects, Beyonce and Lemonade, have debatably been her most popular for a variety of reasons, for there is much to examine in both works. Both albums were well received by fans, and each earned Beyoncé a fair amount of awards. It has been very clear throughout the development of Beyoncé’s career that her influence from Lemonade and Beyoncé is never-ending, even though she uses and credits numerous black artists before her time.Throughout the duration of her career, we have raised very important questions and criticisms about the representation of black women and the messages Beyoncé sends in her music and artistic choices. Despite how powerful and necessary many people believe Beyoncé’s perspective is to the black, LGBTQIA+, and feminine communities, she has received much criticism; Some have focused on issues of complacency and support of a system that blatantly oppresses and exploits women and blacks, said folks claiming that this is present in her lyrics, visuals, and physical appearance. In both albums, Beyoncé acknowledges pressing ideas of societal expectations and the intersections of gender, sexuality, race, and other identities. It is pertinent to thoroughly examine both works in order to fully appreciate or analyze Beyoncé’s work as an artist and comprehend the similarities in each album; notwithstanding, the two albums differed in a multitude of ways: intended audience, perspective, and political presence, and more. While fans and critics alike have access to the same material, it is enthralling to observe the ways in which Beyonce’s pieces have been interpreted. The process and tactics taken to complete each visual album as well as the topics of discussion at hand are remarkably different.
