---
title: Hate to See It
author: Kymon Harrington
layout: post
---

Boy in the Striped Pajamas was a film focused on the Holocaust, the main conflict being Bruno and Shmuel’s forbidden friendship. Everyone in Bruno’s family behaves differently and hold different beliefs about concentration camps, but antisemitism is the dominant culture of their society. Bruno is actively learning more about the Holocaust, but does not fully comprehend that people are being murdered because of religious persecution. On the other hand, Bruno’s mother Elsa strongly disapproves of the camps as well as her husband Ralf’s prominent role in helping lead the atrocity. Gretel, Bruno’s older sister, follows in her father's footsteps, abruptly deciding that she hates Jews. However, it is unclear to what degree she understands and supports the agenda for several reasons: 1) Elsa spent an abundant amount of time trying to keep the brutal truth from her children, so it is entirely possible that her limited scope. 2) Gretel showed no interest in the war or nazism until she's attracted to Karl, a young soldier who is too old for her romantic advances; 3) It is unclear whether Gretel knows she lives near a concentration camp, or what it’s purpose is. A big scene in the movie interestingly demonstrates the power dynamics and communication patterns at play. Unaware that the two young boys know one another, Shmuel gets placed in the house to clean glasses. It is important to note that the previous prisoner placed in the home, Pavel, was severely beaten, and most likely killed, after accidentally spilling wine on an emotional Karl at dinner the night before. Upon making eye contact, Bruno and Shmuel start a conversation. Bruno is aware that Shmuel barely eats, for all prisoners in the film appear purposely malnourished, and Shmuel passionately eats as if he has been starved at the camp. Consequently, Bruno offers one of the many delicacies sitting about as they talk. Bruno begins by declaring “we’re meant to be enemies,” but proceeds to question Shmuel about his father, asking if he is a “good man,” if Shmuel has always thought so, and whether he was proud of his father. Shmuel eagerly answers yes to all three, but his response “aren't you proud of yours” strikes silence between the pair. They are interrupted by Karl, who scolds Shmuel for talking to people in the house and is enraged to find he has food in his hand. Accusing Shmuel of stealing left the young boy stricken with fear, prompting Karl to get uncomfortably close to p face and raise his voice. Despite clarifying that Bruno gave him the treat, Karl labels Shmuel a thief and a liar because Bruno (out of fear) did not take responsibility for his actions. Bruno is then escorted from the room, and Karl can be heard telling Shmuel that he’ll find out what happens to thieving rats. Obviously feeling extremely guilty, Bruno sneaks away daily to see if Shmuel will be at their regular meeting location. However, it would be at least a week before Shmuel returns to their spot, but with a black eye. After a brief apology, they play checkers, and Bruno agrees to sneak into the camp to help Shmuel look for his father, whom the audience can assume is already dead and has been for the duration of the film. It is difficult to determine who needs the most counseling in Bruno’s family, for they all have detrimental, unhealthy behavior that affect the entire family dynamic as well as each others’ actions, or lack thereof. Bruno had a problem with honesty; he was secretive with Shmuel and dishonest with his mother regarding his whereabouts and intentions when playing outside. Gretel’s blindly following nazism because of her romantic feelings for Karl demonstrates her naive nature, which is usual for pre-teen girls. Elsa lacks the confidence to publicly denounce the work at the concentration camps; while she was clearly making an effort to move the children back to their old home, her tolerance with Ralf and the government allowed Bruno to be near the camp longer than he should have been able. Ralf’s biggest downfall is his lack of empathy for Jewish people. It is why he is complacent in helping the concentration camps complete their objective. His lack of empathy for the mistreatment of Jews in his presence and overall nonchalant attitude towards concentration camps is the reason he is arguably the least emotionally developed character in the family despite being the oldest and being a man with power. All of the characters’ moral flaws ultimately lead to Bruno’s untimely death in a gas chamber with Shmuel.
